--
Reunite with the family of her son Joseph Zavidavich and with the family of her daughter Malka who won in Ludmir. She was joined by her daughter Hannah and her son-in-law Moshe Tenenbaum and their children, her son-in-law Nette Perlmutter (now in Montreal, Canada, with his daughter Pradel and her family). However, the bitter fate of the Polish Jews also happened in the city of Ludmir when it was occupied by the Germans. In bitter fate, it turned out to be a witness of the murder of her sons, daughters and her many grandchildren by the German murderers, and finally they were killed together with the Jews of Ludmir. .


The big school, the Beit Midrash
The houses of prayer, the great school with its thick walls, and its high arched windows, was built firmly and strongly.
Its foundations were thick and its walls of broad stones, it rose higher than all the city houses and stood on a central place in front of the city market.
The worshipers of the great synagogue were, for the most part, ordinary Jews, workers and artisans, headed by the mayor.
As the constant cantor in the good old days was Rabbi Kalman Neiman Zal, who made the hearts of the worshipers tremble with his sweet voice.
The headmaster of the school was Zelik Avraham Aharon's Zel
(that's what they called him)
Next to the school - in one of its courtyards - was a smaller school (the Folish) where some of the craftsmen used to work, and the gbay was Fayvel Sher, so there was also a separate school for the Radzine Hasidim ( Stibel) in the building of the school, in one of its halls, as it was concentrated mainly scholars, Hasidic and house owners
There was also the place of the young boys of the Beit Hamdarsh * (Beit Hamdarsh Zitzer)
In the good days to Mussaf, my uncle Rabbi Laibel Zavidovich used to pray as a cantor, and his son Levi Yitzchak used to read the Torah.
Not far from the school (in the same area) was the Beit Midrash, whose worshipers were from all parts of the city: homeowners, scholars, artisans, etc.
A
hook
 


Page 61
--


