--
R. Nathan Nette Hanover Ztzel immortalized the Jewish heroism and the Jewish martyrs who fell on Kiddush Hashem, in his book Yoon Mitzvah. The genius R. Shabti Cohen, the master of the rabbinate, Ziel Zie, wrote for generations in his Megillat Efa, the events, the terrible murders in the Jewish communities by the Jewish leader Bandon Khmelnitsky and his soldiers, in the years 10-19. . .


Every era of our history marked its events. The great destruction of our days must be recorded and marked, and a memorial must be erected after it. Write it down as a memorial in a book, let's remember Horodler landslight in Eretz Israel, United States, Canada, Argentina, and of all art, the Horodler community and its saints. Let's write out their names in a book of remembrance. Let's perpetuate in a book the terrible path of our saints, their beautiful and very cruel death in the gas chambers, which the barbaric Germans set up, and the other terrible deaths with which they perished, together with the six million Jews, their brothers. and sisters, who were cut off in the destruction of Europe. .


Oh woe! Begul't and break are the remaining! The master of integrity complains in the lamentations of Tishah Bab. We do not even know the day of their death, and we do not know the memorial day after all the saints, as well as where their grave is located.


The Book of Remembrance should serve as a memorial for the Horodlar community and should perpetuate the holy name of the Harodlar saints, God.


Income DMM! I'm sitting in the city of Horudla! How the city of Horodla was left alone! Where are the dear and loving children, our parents, our brothers and sisters, our relatives and acquaintances, the dear and loving! How is the rabbi of our city Horodla, the old rabbi Hagaon, the tzaddik, one of the greats of the Radzin Hasidim, the master-author of precious books, our teacher and our rabbi, the holy rabbi Moharr Moshe Yehuda Leib Halevi ztallallahu hiid? Where is his wife, my mother, the modest one. The righteous rabbi. .


Page 18
--


