--
Ikutiel Zavidavich and his brother Fishel Zavidavich were also counted among the students of the school of that time. .


I remember a holiday walk where we made Shavuot after dinner, Aaron Wallach and I, by the side of his father Moshe Wallach along the length of Horodler Market.
As we were walking, Rabbi Moshe Mendel listened to our learning skills, and Aaron then recited about twenty pages of Hadushi Harim on Tosaf:
A whole series of house owners, distinguished scholars, graced the tables of Stibel with their important presence: R. Shmuel Zisberg (he was called Shmuel Key), R. Leibel Zavidovich, R. David Bergman, Elazar Halperin R. Aharon Haim Feder Rabbi Shimon Bitterman, Rabbi Tzvi Shek, Rabbi Hillel Shek (he was a rabbi in Giowitz), Rabbi Mendel Lerner (a harif and an expert), Rabbi Shmuel Yehuda - he used to study a lot at night, and was Flotzim passed away on Passover during his studies, when people entered the school in the morning, they found him dead near the Talmud and his glasses were lying on the open Talmud.
R. Fethiah Blatt - he had an oil restaurant, and made a living from it
After a day of hard work, he used to come to the stable and study for long hours with great concentration and thoughtfulness.
Rabbi Jacob Zuberman behaved in the same way - who had a bakery, and after his work he used to enter the stable and study for long hours with perseverance.
On Achron Achron, Di Frome Shochitim Rabbi Jacob Chesner On Rabbi Mordechai Feigenbaum
A similar panorama of regulars and scholars was also in the Beit Midrash
The Krain of the teachers in the Beit Hamdarsh was a diverse one and his composition was a popular one, in the Beit Midrash they taught house owners from all walks of life, house owners whose livelihood came to them with difficulty and with great effort, craftsmen and publishers, who still They found a hard day's work for their debt to spend a few hours studying the Torah
A group of Jews used to sit at one table and study Talmud
At the second table, a group used to sit and study Humsh with Rashi
At the tables near the big oven, Jews used to sit and study Mishniyot, Ein Ya'akov
I remember some good teachers from my time in the Beit Midrash:


Page 71
--


