--
Is his wife's work and a song of praise bursts out of his mouth: wife of a warrior. .


He makes Kiddush on the wine and feels G-d's friendship: Because you have chosen us and made us holy of all nations and sanctified your Sabbath with love and with the strength of our inheritance, because you chose us and sanctified us from all nations and your holy Sabbath with love and want to make us sacrifices. Therefore, blessed is the temple of the Sabbath, blessed are you who sanctify the Sabbath. .


He has fulfilled the mitzvah of the Shabbat feast and with goodness in his heart he sings: Every temple is Shabbai and knows that everyone who observes Shabbat as a religion has a lot of money, that whoever keeps the Shabbat as it should be.


His, not to weaken him, in his reward is great. Satisfied and satisfied, he ends the reception of Shabbat with the blessing of the food, and he expresses his desire for a day of understanding Shabbat and rest for the lives of the world. To the eternal day of Sabbath and rest. .


He cannot forget in his prayer in Zion and he prays and he asks: When will you reign in Zion, when will you, O Lord, already reign in Zion, and he hopes and is sure that soon in our days you will enter the world and enter into our days, will Forever when your Shekinah (in Zion). When he remembers himself in Zion, his national consciousness awakens in him and he is proud that this Sabbath you did not give to the nations, because you gave to Israel your people, you did not give the peoples of the countries, but Israel, your people, you gave to him. His soul in this while connected with the whole of Israel. He mentions the holy congregations who gave their lives for the holiness of God, he asks for a divorce, may he bless the holy congregations and all those involved in the needs of the faithful. He brings up in his memory - in longing - the radiant past of his people: You planned the Sabbath and wanted its sacrifices, and he carries one request in his heart: Plant us with joy in our land and keep us in our borders.


Page 275
--


