--
Kabrin Rabbi Hadmor HaGaon HaKdush Tse Muharr Noah Naftali, may God bless him and grant him peace, and the grandson of Rabbi Moshe of Kabrin, may God bless him and grant him peace. .


Every small town in Poland was able to be a Torah center if the Mera Datra distinguished himself as a scholar and had an impact with his Torah influence with his scholarship and charity on the members of his community. This is what happened in Horodla, when my father Zatzel devoted himself day and night to the affairs of his community and to the distribution of Torah and piety among the members of his community. .


During his time as the Mera Datra in Horodla, my father Ztzel composed many sakhrim, but he managed to publish only four books to me during his lifetime: Tofarat Benim - a Prussian on the Mishkata Avot. Hak Moshe questions and answers about the first part of Orach Haim. The book contained 34 questions and answers out of the 250 that he had in manuscript and that were lost during the Holocaust years. Remember the Torah of Moshe - a commentary on the Hamsha Humshi Torah according to Pardes. Kol Yehuda - A commentary on the letter of Rabbi Yochanan ben Zachai. Among the manuscripts of my father Zetzl, which were lost, most of them were written in Rashi Khatb), were found: Lam Mishna on Mishniyot, Ilkut al Nabiim and Ketubim compiled from Zohak, 16 and 16. Hek Moshe - innovations on the whole Shs. Commentary on Small Masks. Sermon Moshe preached innovations on the midrash. .


My mother Eh gave birth to five children and these are their names: My sister Esther Ne, who distinguished herself with her talents, died in her most brilliant youth on Rosh Chodesh Tammuz Tarp at the age of 19, when she was Bequeathed to the son of Rev. Yitzchak Meir Kahn of Zamoshch, - the brother-in-law of Radziner Rabbi Der Tsadik Hadmor HGHK Rev. Mordechai Yosef Elazar Leiner, may God bless him and grant him peace. She was buried in the city of Horobyshov. .


My dear brother Muharr Shmuel Halevi Berman Hid Zal, was born in 18th of March and was murdered by the Germans.


Page 
--


