--
Everyday concerns, and have studied Torah. The study was a variety: the series of the week, Gemara with interpretations, Mishniyot, Ein Ya'akov, and whoever just looked into a Hasidic book with determination. On Shabbat and Yum-Tov, the Horodler used to spend most of his time in the school, in the Beit Midrash, or in the Hasidim Shtibel, in study and in prayer. .


Just as I myself belonged to the students of the Hasidic Shtibel, I want to mention the Harodler Jews who studied in the Hasidic Shtibel during the time that I remember. I would also like to emphasize that most of the students of the school were able to study well on their own, although they had the opportunity to study in groups or in pairs, because this contributed to the clarity of the studied subject, especially in the subjects that required a special Deepening and reflection. .


Rabbi Moshe Bar Yisrael Fishel Stone, who mostly studied with his friend Rabbi Yerachmiel Bar Aharon Yehuda Friend, belonged to the permanent students.
Rabbi Shimon Wizenberg, Moshe Wizenberg, Jacob Wizenberg, and Yehoshua Wizenberg and his son Getzel also studied together.
R. Levy Yitzchak Zavidovich and his sons also studied in this school
(Two of his sons, Joseph and Joshua, are now in Israel)
Yosef Zavidavich, the brother of Levi Isaac (his daughter is in Israel, and his son is in the United States), Rabbi Jacob Goldman, the son of Matel Eh, also studied at the school.
R. Yitzchak Blum was considered as a distinct scholar (in the city he was called Yitzchak Melech's).
R. Yitzchak was the rabbi of the older Horodlar boys who studied Talmud with him with additions and interpretations.
I also studied with him together with my friend Moshe Halperin Munia, the son of Eleazar Halperin
R. Elazar Halperin - who was a definite Hasidic - also studied in Stibel
While I was studying at Stibel, some young men who distinguished themselves with their sharpness were studying, among them were: Aharon Wallach (today in the Land of Israel) the son of Rabbi Moshe Mendel AH, Rabbi Moshe Grassburd, the son of Zvi Grassburd Rabbi Pinchas Eisen, Rabbi Aharon Zuberman, the son of


Page 69
--


