--
He was busy for a whole year. Laibele was the one who used to wake up God's people in the late hours of the night to pray. Who of the Haradlers doesn't remember how Libele used to roam the dark streets of the town, in one hand he held a large sledgehammer and in the other - a wooden hammer with which he used to give three strong blows, the echo of which would blend together. With his dry and loud voice when exclaiming: - Jews! Stand up! He prepares himself for the worship of the Bible and his awakening voice used to echo in another voice from the distance in the dark night. Fire splashes from the kerosene lamps that light up in the wake.


Jewish houses look out through the windows. The grown-up members of the household get up and hurry to arrive at the beginning of the prayers. In a short while the shells are filled with Jews full of awe and at the same time imbued with confidence and anticipation for the arrival.


Thick new year. R. David Yosef Zuberman, - the permanent Master-Kura in the Beit Midrash, this universal you, the kind-hearted and righteous who on all days of the week you are used to seeing him with the Pentateuch in his hand as he learns one of the Tosha Shavuot and prepares to The reading on Shabbat. He is the right and trusted messenger of the public in the days of mercy and forgiveness. He is getting ready, he is holding himself in a tallit and his voice rings out in the darkness of the night: Justice and judgment, grace and truth.


In view of the holy days and Yom Kpur, the holy tension in the town rises and strengthens. The Haradler Jews do their soul-searching and spend most of their time in heavenly things, they purify themselves and purify themselves for their Father in heaven, and are sure that the one who hears prayer will receive the prayer of his people Israel. .


The cantor R. Kalman Neiman Zl. Rabbi Kalman Neiman, or as he was called in Haradla, fulfilled an even more important task during the days of Silichot and during the days of Nuraym. .


Page 250
--


