--
The genius among the Polish rabbis, he authored important halachic books and great rabbis used to turn to him with questions and answers and rely on his halachic ruling, like a ruling of a final ruling.
His first book under the name Tefarat Banim was printed in the year of Tarsa. I also have a number of the manuscripts of my father Zatzel, which he sent to me through my brother R. Chaim, who is now a butcher in New York
My father Zatzel ascended the rabbinical throne at the young age of 19
He did not come from a family of rabbis
He inherited the throne of rabbinate from his father-in-law - my grandfather - Rabbi Ikutiel the scholar, the son of Rabbi Yosef the scholar, Rabbi and Abbe Beit Din in the city of Harobyshov
Rabbi Yosef was a son-in-law of Radziner Rabbis, the author of Urhot Chaim, Rabbi Hagaon Rabbi Gershon Chanoch Henen Leiner Ztzel - the discoverer of the Techal, a great genius and a master author of important and well-known Torah books in the whole world. Torah world
My mother Zal the rabbi Bracha Gital passed away at the blinding age of 38 years, when I was 3 years old.
My mother was an important woman, and was known for her charity and her noble attitude even outside the town of Horodla.
After I had studied with my father for several years, he sent me to the yeshiva of the genius Hafetz Chaim in Radin.
The clothing of a Yeshiva boy was similar to the clothing adopted by the Lithuanian Jews, a short dress, in contrast to the long clothing worn by the Polish Jews.
So they wore hoods in contrast to the usual hats of the Polish Jews
Many of them shaved their beards
Being in Radin, I also changed my clothes to the clothes of the Lithuanian Jews, which was a European dress.
I also shaved my beard, when I came back home in 1915 in my Lithuanian clothes, it made a good impression in the town and the Horodlar residents looked at me full of anger, it seems that I was the only one. Among the Horodler boys dressed short and with my non Hasidic


Page 56
--


