--
Waddling on the roads, used to be happy with his honest service and used to thank him for protecting him and the drivers from anything bad and damage on their journeys and while they were driving back home. .


Ya) Rabbi Baruch Schmid Zel: a firmly built, middle-aged man, a dark broad face with a long black beard, a high broad forehead, which testifies to seriousness and learning, black and always smiling eyes, a friend of people, who Liked to chat with them a lot - Rabbi Baruch Schmid was one of them.


Rabbi Baruch was from the Jewish Beit Midrash, and he used to spend every free moment there studying Torah and catching a bit of Talmud, Mishniyot, Ein Jacob, Midrash, etc. There is no better thing than learning the Torah - he used to say, and he himself was a handsome demander and a handsome fulfiller. .


R. Baruch's house stood far from the center of the town, on the road to Dabenka, almost at the edge of the town. Despite this, he did not bother to walk a long distance - through the gentile street - and enter the synagogue and return home most of the time alone. Rabbi Baruch was respected in the town and the gentiles also paid him respect. . Even the wildest fools did not dare to harass him while walking on the gentile street, or when returning home at night after studying. The Jews who had to go through the long Gentile street on foot for the sake of livelihood. saw the two Jewish houses, which were isolated and distant from each other on the Gentile street - the house of R. Moshe Babes and the home of R. Baruch Schmitt - as if they were way stations, where one catches one's breath , the Jewish walker used to go in there to drink water or a glass of tea, and gather fresh strength to go on. .


R. Baruch Schmid was also once a teacher of Jewish boys, and he was different in his method of teaching with it, which he did not see in his scholarship as a matter of livelihood, but he saw in it a mission and he Learned Torah for its own sake. People don't know how.


Page 232
--


