--
The judgments of Father Zzel gained a name in the whole area, and judges also considered them, in connection with this it is worth telling the following episode: at that time, Jews did not load themselves in the government tribunals, but they used to Their disputes are spent in front of the city, rarely when the party that lost used to go to seek justice in the country courts. .


Once it happened that a person who was found guilty in a Torah judgment by my father Ztzel made a request to the district judge of the city of Harobyshov. A Russian by the name of Lashkavitch served as judge. During the court, the judge wanted to know the verdict of the Horodler rabbi in this matter and requested that the rabbi's verdict be translated for him, when this was brought to him.


Verdict translated into Russian, the judge stood up and read it with great reverence. After that, he turned to the Jew and scolded him because he dared not to accept the ruling of Rabbi Harodler because his higher understanding is above the written civil laws. It is understandable that the judge upheld the verdict of the father Zzel, and the judge's words made a desired impression on the Jews of the area, but my father, the .


Rabbi, when the judge's words were conveyed to him, he dismissed the whole matter with a joke: in the eyes of a Gentile - even he is a judge - in every Rabbi a scholar... over large parts of Poland - and In Haradla, Tsarist Russia ruled at that time, and the Russian law demanded that the city rabbi should also know the Russian language. In case the rabbi did not know the Russian language, the Russian rulers used to appoint an additional rabbi who was fluent in Russian. Such a rabbi was called a rabbinic rabbi, that is: the rabbi who was appointed by the government. It is understandable that the government did not pay any special attention to the spiritual merits in Torah knowledge of the one appointed by the rabbi. Also in Harodla, the authorities have appointed a cousin rai.


Page 58
--


